Project/Excel/Resort Payment Collection - Excel Dashboard/README.md, before:

# Resort Payment Collection Excel Dashboard

![Dashboard Screenshot](https://github.com/Raven-D3v/data-analytics-portfolio/blob/9ba0d188161f9bfbe6c647792d23beac35afb196/Project/Excel/Resort%20Payment%20Collection%20-%20Excel%20Dashboard/Resort%20Payment%20Collection%20-%20Excel%20Dashboard%20-%20img%20ss%20.png)  
*Screenshot of the Resort Payment Collection Dashboard with sample data.*

## Overview

This project was originally developed for a client to streamline payment tracking across multiple resorts. To make it available for public use, **all confidential data have been removed**, and sample data has been included in the dashboard.

Managing resort payments manually can be time-consuming and error-prone, especially when handling multiple resorts, payment types, and daily updates. This Excel dashboard provides a **dynamic, consolidated solution** that saves time and improves visibility.

---

## Video Demo

<a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/19s8otvpfp6PAVnIXbx8yfdHtx0GrgGOW/view?usp=sharing" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">
  <img 
    src="https://github.com/Raven-D3v/data-analytics-portfolio/blob/1785874b223784bc7581a8e15aa7ef9e9bc6300d/Project/Excel/Resort%20Payment%20Collection%20-%20Excel%20Dashboard/Resort%20Payment%20Collection%20-%20Excel%20Dashboard%20-%20thmbnl%20.png"
    alt="Resort Payment Collection Dashboard Video Demo"
    width="420"
  />
</a>

📌 **Note:** Clicking the thumbnail will redirect you to **Google Drive** for video playback.

*A short walkthrough demonstrating the dynamic dashboard, KPIs, and interactive features using sample (sanitized) data.*

---

## Core Features

- **Collection by Resort:** Quickly view total payments and outstanding balances per resort.
- **Payment Status Pie Chart:** Visualize the proportion of payments (fully paid, deposits, pending).
- **Deposit vs Full Payment Pie Chart:** Understand the share of deposits versus full payments.
- **Top 10 Countries Bar Chart:** Highlight the top countries contributing to revenue.
- **Dynamic & Auto-Update:** Add new data to the tables, and the dashboard updates automatically.
- **Interactive Filters:** Filter by month or resort for detailed insights.

---

## Project File

The Excel file includes:

- **3 resort data source sheets** consolidated into a single workbook.
- **1 interactive Dashboard sheet** with charts and summary tables.
- **3 hidden backend sheets** used for PivotTables, calculations, and data processing.
- **Dynamic formulas and PivotTables** that automatically update with new data.
- **Sample data only** — all client confidential information has been removed for public use.

**[Download Dashboard Excel File]([./Resort_Payment_Collection_Dashboard.xlsx](https://github.com/Raven-D3v/data-analytics-portfolio/blob/ea00d16635ac999463915d6e9353bc484930df62/Project/Excel/Resort%20Payment%20Collection%20-%20Excel%20Dashboard/resort_excel_dashboard-2.xlsx))**

---

## Purpose

Designed as a client project, this dashboard demonstrates how complex payment tracking can be simplified with Excel. The solution allows users to monitor collections, payments, and revenue distribution efficiently, while remaining flexible for customization or expansion.

---

Commit message:

Update README with project overview and features
Revised project overview and added new sections to enhance clarity and detail about the dashboard's functionality and purpose.

Project/Excel/Resort Payment Collection - Excel Dashboard/README.md, after:

# Resort Payment Collection Excel Dashboard

![Dashboard Screenshot](https://github.com/Raven-D3v/data-analytics-portfolio/blob/9ba0d188161f9bfbe6c647792d23beac35afb196/Project/Excel/Resort%20Payment%20Collection%20-%20Excel%20Dashboard/Resort%20Payment%20Collection%20-%20Excel%20Dashboard%20-%20img%20ss%20.png)  
*Screenshot of the Resort Payment Collection Dashboard with sample data.*

## Overview

This project was originally developed for a client to improve **payment collection visibility across multiple resorts**. For public portfolio use, **all confidential client data has been removed** and replaced with sanitized sample data.

Before this solution, payment tracking relied on **separate resort files and manual consolidation**, making it difficult to:
- Maintain an accurate overview of payment status
- Track deposits vs full payments
- Identify top revenue-contributing countries
- Update reports efficiently on a daily basis

This Excel dashboard centralizes all resort data into **one automated, decision-ready view**, reducing manual work and improving reporting clarity.

---

## Video Demo

<a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/19s8otvpfp6PAVnIXbx8yfdHtx0GrgGOW/view?usp=sharing" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">
  <img 
    src="https://github.com/Raven-D3v/data-analytics-portfolio/blob/1785874b223784bc7581a8e15aa7ef9e9bc6300d/Project/Excel/Resort%20Payment%20Collection%20-%20Excel%20Dashboard/Resort%20Payment%20Collection%20-%20Excel%20Dashboard%20-%20thmbnl%20.png"
    alt="Resort Payment Collection Dashboard Video Demo"
    width="420"
  />
</a>

📌 **Note:** Clicking the thumbnail will redirect you to **Google Drive** for video playback.

*A short walkthrough demonstrating the dynamic dashboard, KPIs, and interactive features using sample (sanitized) data.*

---

## Core Features

- **Collection by Resort:** Quickly view total payments and outstanding balances per resort.
- **Payment Status Pie Chart:** Visualize the proportion of payments (fully paid, deposits, pending).
- **Deposit vs Full Payment Pie Chart:** Understand the share of deposits versus full payments.
- **Top 10 Countries Bar Chart:** Highlight the top countries contributing to revenue.
- **Dynamic & Auto-Update:** Add new data to the tables, and the dashboard updates automatically.
- **Interactive Filters:** Filter by month or resort for detailed insights.

---

## Project File

The Excel file includes:

- **3 resort data source sheets** consolidated into a single workbook.
- **1 interactive Dashboard sheet** with charts and summary tables.
- **3 hidden backend sheets** used for PivotTables, calculations, and data processing.
- **Dynamic formulas and PivotTables** that automatically update with new data.
- **Sample data only** — all client confidential information has been removed for public use.

**[Download Dashboard Excel File]([./Resort_Payment_Collection_Dashboard.xlsx](https://github.com/Raven-D3v/data-analytics-portfolio/blob/ea00d16635ac999463915d6e9353bc484930df62/Project/Excel/Resort%20Payment%20Collection%20-%20Excel%20Dashboard/resort_excel_dashboard-2.xlsx))**

---

## What This Project Demonstrates

- Translating **real client requirements** into a functional Excel dashboard  
- Designing **client-facing reports** that balance clarity and usability  
- Using **PivotTables, formulas, and structured tables** for scalable reporting  
- Building dashboards that reduce manual effort and support decision-making  
- Applying **data sanitization** for NDA-safe public portfolio sharing

---

## Purpose

Designed as a client project, this dashboard demonstrates how complex payment tracking can be simplified with Excel. The solution allows users to monitor collections, payments, and revenue distribution efficiently, while remaining flexible for customization or expansion.

---
